>> If you thought yesterday's
r.kelly interview was
disturbing, that was just the
beginning.
Natalie is on assignment.
Here we go. >> Here we go.
He was taken into custody
yesterday and remains in jail
for failing to pay more than
$116,000 in child support.
>> Second time in just two weeks
that he's been behind bars and
today what we're going to do is
bring in right now -- talking
about the interview, body
language of both R. Kelly's
girlfriend and foremost body
language expert, Stacy Kaiser is
with us.
Is there a common theme you're
seeing?
>> There is.
I worked behind the scenes with
the survivors and discovered
most of them they really love
him.
They loved him and they love
An enso even though he's hurt
them and he's now arrested and
they're glad about that, there's
a pain inside of them and this
longing because of how they feel
about him.
>> We saw that very similarly
with James safechuck and Robson.
>> Michael Jackson.
>> Wasn't until Oprah brought up
how you become complicit in the
abuse that you trick yourself
into believing the lie of this
is how love is shown, this is
how I show love, this is how you
reciprocate love.
>> That's 100% correct and I
think there's an added
R. Kelly I'm told is when he's
good he's very, very good and
when he's bad he's horrid.
It's like a slot machine.
It pays you and you keep holding
out for the win but you're
losing, losing, losing.
>> Let's look at more of R.
Kelly going off about his
ex-wife.
>> 13 years.
Being married.
I flew in on a helicopter.
>> Yeah.
Yes.
Can somebody get him some
tissues?
>> I don't want a tissue.
I believe -- look, man.
Look.
I'm telling you all.
I flew in on a helicopter with a
damn puppy and I -- proposed to
her whom I was in love with.
And told her, hey look.
I make mistakes.
I'm not perfect.
We got married.
We had three beautiful kids.
Not once have I ever had a
domestic violence call at the
house and all this, that and the
other.
It never happened.
>> Talking about his ex-wife
there.
Just looking at his body L
language alone, what do you make
of that?
>> When people are lying they're
not looking people in their eye.
That's a strong sign of
deception.
We see this is shaking his head
no saying don't believe me.
Don't believe a word I'm seeing
and I see this is a guy who's
scared, pleading for his life.
If you imagine someone with a
firing squad in front of them
and on their knees and arms
flailing and he doesn't want the
tissue because you doesn't want
to stop the flow of tears.
>> Believe that they're real and
wipe them away --
>> Yes.
>> It also seemed like he was
maybe trying to figure out what
he was going to say next.
>> 100%.
Searching back they're searching
in the back of the mind and part
of what we're seeing, I think
real tears for himself.
He is sad that he thinks he is
actually in trouble now.
I also think it's manipulative
tears for the audience.
Don't give me a tissue because I
need to put on the show.
>> Only the positive.
The helicopter and the puppy.
>> That's the highlight reel.
He has to go back 20 years to
come up with something nice he's
done with his ex-wife to say I
did great stuff and she made a
choice to be with me so this
can't be true.
>> All right.
His ex-wife Adrian tells a
pretty different story of their
marriage in the "Surviving R.
Kelly."
She said she went to the hotline
and on the list of 17 questions
about abuse, she claims only two
that R. Kelly hadn't done to
her.
Here's when she was asked about
>> Does Adrian not tell the
truth she was abused by you?
>> Slult.
She is not telling the truth.
I love her to death.
I have nothing against her
still.
That is my kids' mother.
>> She is making that up why?
Why is she making that up,
>> I'm not disrespecting her by
saying she's not telling the
truth.
I'm just being honest.
Somebody sent me some of my
phone saying that I hogtied her.
I never hogtied people!
Why would I hogtie her?
My kids is listening to this.
All of this nonsense.
I don't spend no time with them.
This is real.
This is not a lie.
What kind of woman would tear
down a dad?
Who's trying to have a
relationship with their kids.
You know how many kids need a
relationship with their father?
>> What is your relationship
with your children.
>> Oh my god!
>> What is your relationship
with your children?
>> Zero.
>> But I know my kids love me.
I'm in love with my kids.
I love my kids.
>> I don't know where to begin
on this.
Maybe start with the looping.
>> He is having a hard time
sitting in his own skin and hard
to be him today and part of why
you see that movement.
The other thing I want to point
out is how he is kind of hiding.
He is -- what he is trying to
say to us is I don't want you to
look at me rightow.
Because he is upset.
He really truly does believe he
is in trouble.
Not a way of I'm a bad man but
don't look at me because I'm a
mess right now and this is not
how we typically see R. Kelly.
>> No.
Never seen him like this.
>> Confident.
This is a man who really thinks
he is in trouble.
As I said earlier, he is
pleading for his life.
>> In the documentary that you
also worked on, she talked about
the 17 questions and some of the
questions are pretty -- I mean,
it is pretty intense.
Does -- are you insulted,
demeaned or embarrassed and
receive putdowns?
Look at you or act in ways that
scare you?
Stop you from seeing your
friends or family members?
Make decisions without your
consultation?
Destroy your property or
threaten to kill your pets?
The things on the list are clear
signs of an abusive
relationship.
>> A lot of control.
>> Yes.
But part of what we see of
people that are narcissistic, I
haven't met him but I believe
he's narcissistic, sociopathic,
he believes his own tale and
people helped him, who have been
complicit in really making these
women be abused.
So that sort of feeds the beast
of what I am doing is okay.
Because I'm me.
I love these people and I also
buy them nice gifts.
>> They love me back, right?
>> Yes.
>> Gayle talked to the two women
who live with R. Kelly at his
Chicago home.
A 23-year-old and 21-year-old
and tearfully spoke out in his
defense, actually.
>> What is your relationship
both of you with R. Kelly?
>> We're with him.
That's our relationship.
>> We are with him.
>> We live with him.
>> We are in a relationship with
him.
>> You just said it.
>> A very both relationship.
>> Both of you?
>> Most definitely.
>> How do we say this without
being appropriate?
Do you have a separate
relationship with him?
How does this work?
>> Both of those.
>> Curious.
>> We have individual
relationships with him.
>> Right.
>> We all are family together.
We have moments to sit and watch
movies together.
We go to amusement parks
together.
>> I'm not talking about that.
I'm talking about is it a
three-way sexual relationship?
>> Sexually, first of all I'm
not here to talk about my
personal life.
I don't never share with anyone
what I do inside or outside of
the bedroom and I'm sure you
wouldn't either.
>> I wouldn't.
>> So okay then.
>> You're right.
>> Next question.
>> I would not.
This is a very different
circumstance.
>> It is not a different
There are people all over the
world who have multiple
girlfriends.
It is no different.
>> Do both of you all believe
you're in love with him?
>> Of course.
>> Absolutely.
Yes.
>> Of course.
>> All right.
Let's start with the young
ladies' outfits.
What does that say?
>> I think they were well put
together.
Somebody helped them put
themselves together, hepdslped them
get poised and look official and
well taken care of and wearing
expensive clothing.
>> Is it the tone they were
striking to Gayle in?
I get it.
It's a personal question and how
you relate to a significant
other but did it seem odd the
way they came back at her?
>> They're super defensive and
super angry and they don't need
to be if they don't have
anything to hide.
It tells me that they're trying
to hide something.
>> Here's part of what I think
is sad about the clip with these
young women.
They believe what they're
saying.
I'm sure they do go to amusement
parks and do good things with
him and do love him and so a lot
of -- they're doing the emphatic
body lack wage with emphasis of
the hands and the head because
they mean it.
They feel it.
It's real for them.
A lot of the lines they were
spewing are things that they
have learned to say.
>> I was going to say, it felt
like coached to me.
>> Interesting, by the way, R.
Kelly wasn't supposed to be in
the interview.
He comes in during the
interview, stood between them
coughing so they knew he was in
the room.
The parents say brainwashed.
Is it more control?
>> Control.
>> Can you tell?
>> Yeah.
I think it's a combination.
The control has made them
believe something.
It is a lot like what you hear
happening in a cult where they
start to believe this is what
their life is and it's a real
story because that's the story
that it is for them.
As far as part of what we are
seeing with the parents and that
kind of going against, I believe
that R. Kelly has almost become
their parent and don't need the
parents anymore and why they're
rejecting them and the fact he
came in the room I want to
address that, anyone that's a
parent or a boss knows if you
have to step in and watch
someone doing their work you
don't trust them.
>> Right.
>> And so, he's making sure that
they stay in line by being in
the room and I think he is so
scored that they blow his cover
because like I said all the rage
we are seeing is coming out of
fear that he needs to make sure
they know he's there.
>> The two parents of the two
women claim K. Kelly brainwashed
their daughters and that they
have proof that he had sex with
them under age and here's what
the women said about that.
>> Why would they want to lie
about you, their daughters?
>> Okay.
When I first met Robert, my
parents told me to lie about my
age.
So when I met him, he thought
that I was 18.
On top of that, when I was 17,
my parents were actually making
me trying to get me to take
photos with him, take sexual
videos with him, all kinds of
stuff.
>> Wait, wait, wait.
They encouraged you to do sexual
videos with R. Kelly?
>> Yes.
Because if they have to
blackmail him they can use it
against him which is exactly
what they're doing.
>> I see you nodding a lot with
what she is saying.
Why are you noddings in
agreement?
>> Because everything that she
is saying is true.
Our parents are basically out
here just to get money.
>> Your father told a very
different story.
>> Yeah, well --
>> To me last night.
>> He is the manipulator.
He is very manipulative.
He's the one you need to watch
out for.
But my dad and my mom, they're
sending threats to both me and
they said I'll put your pictures
all over the world.
I'm going to ruin you, ruin him.
If he doesn't send $20,000 to
this bank account by Monday I'm
going to put everything out
there and then $10,000 after
that.
You're trying to solicit me like
I'm a [ bleep ].
I'm your child.
>> Exactly.
>> You sound very angry with
your parents and very pained.
Tell me why you're crying.
Tell me.
>> I'm crying because you guys
don't know the truth.
You guys believe the [ bleep ]
That our parents are saying.
This is all [ bleep ] For money.
And if you can't see that you're
ignorant and you're stupid.
[ Bleep ].
Because you want to be.
All because that's the world we
live in.
Negativity.
>> Exactly.
>> Rumors are what sell.
>> This is more than gossip.
This is more than just rumors.
These are decades of allegations
against Robert Kelly.
>> We're not here to talk about
decades.
We're here to talk about what
our parents are doing right now.
>> Right.
>> This is all for money.
>> What do you make of that?
>> Looks like two little girls.
>> Right?
>> Who have no idea what is
happening to them and why people
are concerned about them react
so emotionally.
>> Right.
I believe because they believe
what they're saying and told
that the parents are asking R.
Kelly for money.
They're being told the parents
are doing this for financial
gain and for attention.
They're being told all of these
things and they believe it.
Part of what they have sort of
described is this is their
family now and people are super
loyal and protective about the
family and that is what we are
seeing.
However, seeing the ladies talk
some of the time they aren't
able to keep eye contact with
Gayle and that tells me they
know they're lying and also some
moments where they're sort of
trying to defend themselves and
their choices and that's because
they don't want to be looked at
in a bad light.
What do they look like if they
believe and we believe that they
ooef
have been fools to man?
They have to assert everything
is wonderful to continue to
uphold the view that they have
of themselves which is that
they're okay.
>> What about the anger against
their parents?
At 17, you put me in this
situation.
>> Yeah.
Listen.
I don't know what happened in
the beginning.
In terms of did the parent --
were the parents saying this is
a possible career for you?
Totally possible.
Are they doing desperate things
now?
Yes.
However, these are some of the
moemtds when I saw her starting
to look away and fish for
information and makes me think
that she was trying to remember
the story that she's supposed to
>> What's interesting, too, to
know that Gayle was on this
morning talking about she
reached out to the camp of R.
Kelly and they said this is a
great interview an pleased with
the joutd come.
Did that surprise you?
>> Well, I think it's smoke and
mirrors.
I think they're pleased with the
girls but I certainly can
imagine they didn't think that
R. Kelly would be as outrageous
>> Unhinged.
>> If they tell us they're
pleased then the people
following him believe it.
>> It felt like it was talking
to potential jurors and trying
the case in public.
>> That's part of what he is
doing.
>> Thank you so much.
Really good stuff.